
=== PAGE 1 ===
Improved accuracy for decoding surface codes with matching synthesis
Cody Jones∗
Google Quantum AI, Santa Barbara, CA 93117, USA
We present a method, called matching synthesis, for decoding quantum codes that produces an
enhanced assignment of errors from an ensemble of decoders. We apply matching synthesis to
develop a decoder named Libra, and show in simulations that Libra increases the error-suppression
ratio Λ by about 10%. Matching synthesis takes the solutions of an ensemble of approximate
solvers for the minimum-weight hypergraph matching problem, and produces a new solution that
combines the best local solutions, where locality depends on the hypergraph. We apply matching
synthesis to an example problem of decoding surface codes with error correlations in the conventional
circuit model, which induces a hypergraph with hyperedges that are local in space and time. We
call the matching-synthesis decoder Libra, and in this example the ensemble consists of correlated
minimum-weight matching using a different hypergraph with randomly perturbed error probabilities
for each ensemble member. Furthermore, we extend matching synthesis to perform summation of
probability for multiple low-weight solutions and at small computational overhead, approximating
the probability of an equivalence class; in our surface code problem, this shows a modest additional
benefit. We show that matching synthesis has favorable scaling properties where accuracy begins
to saturate with an ensemble size of 60, and we remark on pathways to real-time decoding at
near-optimal decoding accuracy if one has an accurate model for the distribution of errors.
I. INTRODUCTION
A fault-tolerant quantum computer requires real-time
decoding of the parity checks that detect errors during
the computation [1]. Accuracy of decoding is important
as well, since improvements in accuracy can reduce the
resource overhead for error correction [2–5]. Hence de-
coding algorithms that achieve higher accuracy while be-
ing efficient to run in real time are desirable for making
useful quantum computers.
Many works have studied accurate decoding for sur-
face codes. If accuracy improvements are relative, then
the historical baseline [6] is Edmonds’ Blossom algo-
rithm [7] for minimum-weight perfect matching (where
often the decoder itself is known as MWPM). The ob-
servation that correlations between the X andZ lattices
(or primal and dual in the original work [8]) could be
exploited by edge reweighting [9] led to improved accu-
racy with correlated MWPM [10–13]. More recently, a
mapping between surface and color codes [14] converts
the problem into finding a good decoder for color codes.
Accuracy in matching can also be improved with belief
propagation [15] or accounting for path degeneracy with
multi-path summation [16].
Whereas correlated matching is heuristic with error
correlations, there are other decoding algorithms that
attempt to compute optimal solutions. Belief propa-
gation [17, 18] can achieve high accuracy but some-
times fails to converge (Ref. [15] falls back to match-
ing). Tensor-network decoders appear to approach opti-
mal accuracy for 2D networks (noiseless syndrome mea-
surement) [19–21], but contracting a 3D tensor network,
required for fault tolerance in surface codes, is believed to
∗ ncodyjones@google.com
be intractable beyond small code distances [22–24]. Like-
wise, integer-program decoders have exponential runtime
in the worst case [25, 26], though the average runtime
for below-threshold error rates could be more favorable;
linear-program decoders [27, 28] may also enable circum-
venting intractable runtimes.
This work introduces a decoder called Libra that uti-
lizes ensembling, where a collection of decoders pro-
duce differing decoding solutions, which are analyzed
collectively. Ensembling for decoding has appeared in
machine-learning decoders [29, 30] and matching with
the Harmony decoder [13]. The Harmony decoder, de-
veloped by colleagues at the same institution, was an in-
spiration for how to identify improving cycles in problem-
independent way, as opposed to local search that would
introduce complexity that depends on problem structure.
Both Harmony and Libra access an ensemble of decoders;
Harmony makes fewer demands on the ensemble out-
put (majority voting or selecting the global-minimum
weight), whereas Libra can synthesize the best local so-
lutions across the ensemble, if the ensemble can produce
an assignment of errors.
We remark that the matching synthesis method ap-
pears new to the author, but the procedure seems to
apply to other problems in optimization beyond decod-
ing quantum codes. Hence this method or something
similar may already appear in a different field, under a
different name. It was not found in a literature search,
though this would be limited by the author’s knowledge
of terminology in other fields. The use of a random en-
semble and combining pieces of solutions resembles local
search in simulated annealing [31–33] or “crossover” in
genetic algorithms [34–36], but the similarity ends there;
our method is not local search or a genetic algorithm. If
a closer match to this method is found in prior work, the
manuscript will be updated accordingly.
arXiv:2408.12135v1  [quant-ph]  22 Aug 2024
=== PAGE 2 ===
2
II. DECODING FROM MINIMUM-WEIGHT
HYPERGRAPH PERFECT MATCHING
The minimum-weight hypergraph perfect matching
(MWHPM) problem is a generalization of the more com-
monly encountered minimum-weight perfect matching
problem [7]. However, whereas the latter can be solved
optimally in polynomial time, MWHPM is an NP-hard
problem [37]. Hence the best we can hope for in a new
approach to this problem is to improve the trade-off be-
tween computational time and approximation to optimal
accuracy. Let us first define the MWHPM problem and
describe how this problem applies to decoding quantum
codes.
Define a weighted hypergraph as G = (V,E ) where V
is a set of vertices and E is a set of hyperedges. Each
hyperedgee∈E has some list of vertices v(e), where the
list size is any positive integer (contrast this with a graph,
where the size must be two for every edge) and every
vertex in the list is in V . Furthermore, each hyperedge e
has weightw(e) that in general can be any real number,
though we restrict our attention tow(e)≥ 0 in this work.
Let us furthermore represent the sum of edge weights for
a list of hyperedges e ={ei} as
w(e) =
X
ei∈e
w(ei). (1)
In mapping to decoding stabilizer quantum codes [38],
each vertex is a parity check, and each hyperedge cor-
responds to an error channel. The vertices v(e) are the
parity checks that flip when the errore occurs. There are
different approaches to selecting the hyperedge weights,
but we will motivate a typical one. If errors are indepen-
dent binary channels with probabilityp(e) (i.e. weighted
coin flip for each error occurring or not), then setting
w(e) = log[(1 −p(e))/p(e)] creates an equivalence be-
tween minimizing a sum of hyperedge weights and maxi-
mizing posterior probability over error events consistent
with the syndrome [9, 13, 19, 20], as described below.
Because each hyperedge e corresponds to a specific error
occurring, we will interchangeably refer to e as an error
as well. Likewise, we will say e, a list of hyperedges, is
also a configuration of errors.
The MWHPM problem, generalized for our purposes,
is defined as follows. For a weighted hypergraph, one
is given a “syndrome” S that is a list of vertices. In
decoding quantum codes, the syndrome will be parity
checks that have flipped due to errors. Furthermore, let
us define a syndrome function s(e) = v(e) for a single
hyperedge, and for a list of hyperedges e ={ei}
s(e) =
M
ei∈e
s(ei), (2)
wheres(e1)⊕s(e2) means symmetric difference of the lists
s(e1) ands(e2), or equivalently mod-2 parity. Hence, the
MWHPM optimization problem is finding e that solves
minw(e) s.t.s (e) =S. (3)
Said in words, all configurations of hyperedges that sat-
isfys(e) =S correspond to possible Pauli-error patterns
consistent with the observed parity-check violations, and
we seek the error pattern that minimizes the weight sum
w(e) because this event will be the most probable. For
simplicity, we call any solution e that satisfies s(e) = S
a “matching for S”.
The generalization to MWHPM used here is in the
meaning of “perfect matching”, implied by the ⊕ in
Eqn. (2). Here we take perfect matching to mean that
the parity of hyperedges incident to a given vertexu must
be odd for u∈S and must be even for u /∈S. In the tra-
ditional formulation of perfect matching for graphs [7],
there is no syndrome (or one could say the syndrome is
implicitly all vertices), and the number of incident edges
to every vertex must be one, instead of any odd number.
To complete the connection between MWHPM and de-
coding for quantum codes, we additionally associate an
“observable list”o(e) with every hyperedge e. This does
not appear in the optimization problem, but it does de-
termine the result of decoding once a solution to the op-
timization problem has been chosen. For the quantum
code, make some arbitrary choice of logical operators
{Oi} (which are Pauli strings in stabilizer codes) that
propagate through the error correction circuit. For each
error event, o(e) is the list of operators in {Oi} that an-
ticommutes with e (i.e. error e occurring would flip the
observed value ofOi). For a set of hyperedges we can say
that
o(e) =
M
ei∈e
o(ei), (4)
where again⊕ means symmetric difference. Equivalently,
if we track observable lists as bitstrings with a 1 in po-
sition i for each Oi, then the operation ⊕ means bitwise
XOR.
These logical observables are important for two rea-
sons. First, all error patterns with the same observable
list define an equivalence class [9, 19]. Second, when de-
coding is employed in a fault-tolerant computation, the
observable list for the chosen error configuration deter-
mines the outcome of logical-qubit measurements.
III. MATCHING SYNTHESIS
Matching synthesis is a procedure for taking two or
more solutions to the MWHPM problem, described in
the previous section, and producing a new solution that
is in general better than any of the inputs (and at least
as good as the best input). For two distinct MWHPM
solutions, the procedure is:
1. compute the symmetric difference (SD) of the as-
signed errors,
2. separate the SD into pieces with null syndrome
(“cycles”),
=== PAGE 3 ===
3
FIG. 1. Example showing that two matchings (A andB, top)
for the same syndrome can be related by flipping two cycles
(bottom), where the cycles are collectively the symmetric dif-
ference A ⊕ B.
3. determine the signed weight of each cycle, and
4. form a new “synthetic matching” that incorporates
only the cycles that lower weight.
The rest of this section elaborates on the synthesis pro-
cess, and later sections describe how this can be used in
decoding quantum codes.
Following the nomenclature of Section II, suppose that
for decoding a syndrome S, there are candidate match-
ings e and f: s(e) = s(f) = S. Let d = e⊕ f be the
symmetric difference of these two solutions; namely, can-
cel out the errors assigned in both configurations and
keep the errors that appear in only one configuration.
By linearity,s(d) =s(e)⊕s(f) =∅, the null syndrome.
Any set of hyperedgesc with null syndrome has a prop-
erty that is key to this work. Let us label any such c a
“cycle”, where we will refine the definition below after
motivating its use. For any error configuration e and
any cycle c, then s(e⊕ c) = s(e). Hence, given one de-
coding solution s(e) = S, we can use cycles to generate
other solutions. If we are clever about which cycles to in-
corporate, then we can produce new solutions with lower
weight, w(e⊕ c) < w(e) and improve our approximate
solution to MWHPM.
Let us be explicit about what we mean by “cycle” in
our extended version of a hypergraph. For our purposes,
a cycle is any hyperedge list c such that s(c) = ∅ and
o(c) = ∅. Setting aside logical observables, this def-
inition subsumes the traditional meaning of cycles on
graph. It also includes any configuration of hyperedges
such every vertex has an even number of incident hyper-
edges. The logical observables are furthermore necessary
because they define equivalence classes, and we require
that given a cycle c,o(e) =o(e+c) for all e, such that in-
corporating a cycle does not change the equivalence class
for a given solution. An example using edges in a normal
graph, which is easier to visualize than a hypergraph, is
shown in Fig. 1.
We want to make the best (i.e. lowest weight) match-
ing that we can for a given syndromeS, and our approach
will be to improve an initial solution e by combining with
one or more cycles. To proceed, we define a “relative
weight” function for cycles:
w(c|e) =w(c⊕ e)−w(e). (5)
While it might seem like we are going in circles, this
relative weight can be expressed as
w(c|e) =w(c\e)−w(c∩ e), (6)
where c\e means “hyperedges in c and not in e” and
c∩ e is the interection, “hyperedges in both c and e”.
The interpretation is straightforward: in going from e→
(e⊕ c), we remove the hyperedges in c∩ e and subtract
their summed weight, and we we add the hyperedges in
c\e and add their weight. The formulation in Eqn. (6)
shows that we can compute the relative weight of the
cycle with complexity that scales with the cycle size, not
the size of the matching as one might think from Eqn. (5).
The relative weight is useful because it tells us how much
a matching solution improves by combining with a cycle.
So we want to find cycles with negative relative weight,
w(c|e)< 0, because this would meanw(c⊕ e)<w (e). If
we take two matchings e and f, compute the symmetric
difference d = e⊕ f, and compute w(d|e), we are left
with the uninspiring result that we are just picking the
lower weight matching of the two. Now we reach the core
result of matching synthesis. Instead of computing the
weight of the entire symmetric difference, we breakd into
smaller cycles where possible,
d =
M
i
di s.t. s(d) =s(di) =∅, (7)
where each di is a subset of d. We then compute
w(di|e) for each subset, and filter out the ones that have
o(di) ̸= ∅ or w(di|e) ≥ 0. What remains are cycles
{ci} of negative relative weight. We can produce a new
matching
g = e⊕
 M
c∈N
c
!
, (8)
where the set of negative-relative-weight cycles is N =
{c : c∈ d,w (c|e) < 0}. Matching g is derived from e
and f, and it will equal e whenN =∅ and equal f when
N = d. However, something interesting happens when
N contains some of, but not all of, the cycles in d: in
this case, g is an entirely new “synthetic” matching, and
=== PAGE 4 ===
4
FIG. 2. Continuing from the example in Fig. 1, suppose that
just one of the cycles c from the lower-right of Fig. 1 has
negative relative weight. We can produce a new “synthetic”
matching D = A ⊕ c that has lower weight than either of the
source matchings A or B.
it has lower weight than either e or f. This is depicted
with a visual example in Fig. 2.
Splitting a given d withs(d) =∅ into pieces{di} with
s(di) =∅ can be done in more than one way. The method
we employ here is to simply to break d into connected
components, where two hyperedges are connected when
they touch a common vertex. This can be computed ef-
ficiently using standard techniques in graph search. It
results in subsets di that satisfy Eqn. (7) by being non-
overlapping; note however than Eqn. (7) does not require
{di} to be non-overlapping. Using connected compo-
nents does not guarantee the pieces are as small as possi-
ble; for example, if there are two cycles that touch at one
mutual vertex, they will form a single connected compo-
nent. We find that isolating cycles by connected compo-
nents works well for decoding surface codes, as shown in
Section V, and we leave the more general problem of cy-
cle decomposition, which can be done with cycle-finding
algorithms, to future work.
There is one final step to close the loop on matching
synthesis, and that is addressing the observable lists asso-
ciated with hyperedges. When we separate a symmetric
difference d into pieces according to Eqn. (7), such as
by connected components, sometimes pieces in {di} will
be logical operators. Using our previous definitions, any
di with s(di) = ∅ and s(di)̸=∅ is a logical operator.
Although they are not cycles, logical operators will be
useful in two ways for improving our decoding solutions.
First, using one solution e, we can generate another so-
lution in a different equivalence class via e⊕ di, because
o(e⊕di) =o(e)⊕o(di). Second, for two pieces di and dj
withs(di) =s(dj) =∅ ando(di) =o(dj), we can make a
cycle di⊕ dj, because o(di⊕ dj) =o(di)⊕o(dj) =∅. In
some cases, adding cycles from a pair of equivalent logi-
cal operators, which may not be found by the connected-
components method, can yield an improving cycle.
While matching synthesis improves a solution to the
MWHPM problem by incorporating cycles of negative
relative weight, what can we make of cycles with positive
relative weight? One application, which will we show can
improve decoding for surface codes, is to record cycles
with small positive (or zero) relative weight. Each cycle
can generate a new matching, and if the relative weight
is small, this will be another approximate solution, with
weight that is not the best known, but close to it. Of
course, if there are cycles with relative weight zero, they
produce alternative solutions with smallest weight found.
If these small-weight cycles are non-overlapping, they
generate many good solutions to the MWHPM prob-
lem: n non-overlapping cycles encodes 2 n distinct so-
lutions. We show later that the Libra decoder can effi-
ciently compute the sum of probability over all 2 n con-
figurations in time linear in n, and also describe how
it handles cases where these small-positive cycles over-
lap. This is reminiscent of multi-path summation [16] or
the way Markov-chain [9], tensor-network [13, 19, 20] or
belief-propagation [15, 17, 18] decoders account for mul-
tiple error configurations in an equivalence class.
IV. LIBRA DECODER
We apply matching synthesis to make a new decoder
that we call Libra. Libra works by using an ensemble
of decoders to generate multiple distinct matchings, and
synthesize from them better matchings. Libra iteratively
improves two or more matchings, one for each equiva-
lence class represented. For example, in the simulations
of Section V, there are two equivalence classes for a log-
ical memory experiment (e.g. in an X-basis memory ex-
periment, X logical operators act trivially, so there are
two equivalence classes and not four).
The architecture of Libra as implemented in this work
is shown in Fig. 3. To initialize a representative for
each equivalence class, we first perform complementary
matching [9, 39–42], using correlated MWPM on the un-
perturbed error hypergraph. Correlated MWPM returns
two “edge” matchings for theX andZ graphs, which can
be converted to the most-probable assignment of hyper-
edges within the original hypergraph that contain these
matched X and Z edges using the assignment method
in Ref. [13]. There are other ways of producing repre-
sentatives, such as relying on an ensemble to stochas-
tically generate matchings in more than one equiva-
lence class [13]. However, the complementary matching
also provides the “complementary gap”, the difference in
weight between the two matchings found, which is very
=== PAGE 5 ===
5
FIG. 3. Architecture of the Libra decoder in this work. The diagram depicts 5 decoders in D1–D5 in the ensemble, but the
ensemble size can be arbitrary. Each ⊕ operation in this diagram stands for matching synthesis (Sec. III) between the two
matchings indicated by arrows pointing into the ⊕. The arrow coming out of the ⊕ indicates the result of incorporating the
cycles of negative relative weight (relative to the matching from the horizontal arrow, which originates with the complementary
matching step). As described in the text, when recording small-positive cycles, the sequence of synthesis stages in Step 3 is
performed twice. In the final step, a comparison is made between two matchings after incorporating improving cycles from the
ensemble.
predictive of the probability of logical error for a given
syndrome [39]. We use the gap to only invoke the ensem-
ble on a small fraction of “hard” cases (where the gap is
small), which happens sufficiently rarely (and with like-
lihood that decreases exponentially with code distance
when below threshold) that the average runtime of Libra
is dictated by complementary matching, and the cost of
running an ensemble of 100 decoders becomes insignifi-
cant to the average runtime. Another option would be
to use a small ensemble first, where we invoke the larger
ensemble if there are least two equivalence classes for the
matchings in the first ensemble [13].
There are many ways to choose an ensemble, but we
opt for using correlated minimum-weight perfect match-
ing (MWPM) [10–13] with randomly perturbed hyper-
edge weights. This is simple to implement (via Stim [43],
one can edit DEM files) and is similar to the ensemble in
Harmony [13], though not the same. The perturbation is
to multiply the probabilitypi→p′
i for each error channel
by a log-normally distributed random variable:p′
i =piri,
where ri∼ Lognorm(0,σ 2) is equivalent to ri = exp(ti)
for ti∼ Norm(0,σ 2). For example, if σ = ln 2, then the
perturbations will have a standard deviation of a factor-
of-2, normally distributed in the logarithm of probabil-
ity. This will ensure that probabilities are normalized,
and zero-probability events (if present) remain zero. Fur-
thermore, since hyperedge weights are typically the loga-
rithm of probability, this is effectively adding a normally
distributed perturbation to hyperedge weights. To be ex-
plicit, we only use these randomly perturbed hypergraph
weights to induce an ensemble of correlated-MWPM de-
coders to give different matching solutions; when we eval-
uate the weight of a matching or cycle (such as Eqn. (6),
we use the unperturbed weights.
For the comparison step in Fig. 3, one could compare
the weights of the best solution for each equivalence class
(e.g. two for a logical memory experiment) after match-
ing synthesis across the ensemble. One can also use small-
positive cycles found during synthesis to generate mul-
tiple configurations in each equivalence class, sum the
probabilities for each equivalence class, and compare the
probabilities for the equivalence classes, in a manner de-
scribed below. Libra is configured to do both (the first is
necessary, and the second comes at negligible additional
cost), and Section V reports the results for decoding the
surface code.
We describe here the algorithm currently employed for
using the small-positive cycles to estimate probabilities
=== PAGE 6 ===
6
for equivalence classes, though many variations are pos-
sible. As cycles with nonnegative relative weight are
discovered, they are stored in a max-heap of fixed size
(in the simulations of Section V, the size is 30). When
an improving cycle (one with negative relative weight)
is found, the heap is cleared, because the stored positive
cycles were relative to a hyperedge configuration that has
changed with the improving cycle. Alternatively, one
could iterate through the cycles in the heap and only
modify or discard as necessary for those overlapping the
improving cycle. Because clearing the heap could happen
in any synthesis step, Libra currently performs the syn-
thesis procedure twice, where negative cycles are rarely
discovered in the second pass, which mostly functions to
discover small-positive cycles.
After all matching-synthesis operations are performed,
we have a “best matching” for each of the equivalence
classes being considered by Libra (e.g. two for the mem-
ory experiment). We also have the small-positive cycles
that were discovered, from which we can generate many
other configurations. For example, if we store 30 such
cycles, we could generate as many as 2 30≈ 109 configu-
rations. The number could be less than 2 30 if the cycles
stored are not linearly independent (e.g. if the combina-
tion of two cycles is another stored cycle). Computing
all such configurations generated by these cycles would
be impractical. However, at least for surface codes, they
tend to be small cycles from disparate parts of the hy-
pergraph, so instead we split the cycles into connected
components. For this step, two cycles are connected if
they overlap in at least one edge. For each connected
component of cycles {ci}, we compute a relative proba-
bility:
pr({ci}) =
X
c∈G({ci})
pr(c), (9)
whereG ({ci}) is the set of all unique cycles generated
by{ci} and the relative probability for a single cycle c is
pr(c) =p(e⊕ c)/p(e), (10)
i.e. the ratio of probability of the configuration using the
cycle to the “base” synthetic matching e. We emphasize
relative, because the “null” cycle ∅ is always an element
of anyG, corresponding to the synthetic matching itself,
and it has a relative probability of 1. If probability is
the logarithm of weight, then relative probability can be
computed directly from the relative weight of the cycle,
which is much faster than a computation over the entire
matching. Finally, two implementation notes. First, as
we are generatingG ({ci}), we may encounter a generat-
ing set from the connected component {ci} that is not
linearly independent. To guard against this, we use a
hash table to store the elements of G ({ci}) as they are
produced, and skip redundant entries. An alternative
would be to compute an independent vector basis such
as by Gaussian elimination over binary vectors. Second,
it is possible that G ({ci}) is very large because it is ex-
ponential in the size of {ci}. For speed, we truncate the
FIG. 4. Matching synthesis can be performed by a
logarithmic-depth binary tree of synthesis steps.
sum by only considering a low-order approximation to
the exponentially large number of combinations (e.g. use
{ci} as the set to sum over, or all combinations of two
elements of{ci}). In the simulations, we make this ap-
proximation if|{ci}|≥ 10 cycles. Finally, the estimated
probability of the equivalence class is
p(equivalence class) =p(e)
Y
k
p(k)
r , (11)
wherep(k)
r is the relative probability for thekth connected
component in the small-positive cycles.
Another generalization of the procedure is the freedom
of how to synthesize members of the ensemble. Figure 3
illustrates a sequential procedure where the current syn-
thesized matching updates iteratively with each ensemble
member. Alternatively, one could synthesize matchings
from the ensemble in a logarithmic-depth binary tree,
as shown in Fig. 4, which could have advantages for
parallelization of the algorithm. Since synthesis can be
performed between two matchings, any binary tree with
number of leaves equal to ensemble size can describe a
synthesis sequence.
V. THE SURFACE CODE WITH PAULI
ERRORS IN THE CIRCUIT MODEL
For our simulations, we simulate a surface code mem-
ory experiment, which consists of initializing in a basis
(X or Z) by direct initialization of data qubits, repeat-
edly measuring the stabilizers with a circuit of Clifford
gates for some number of cycles, and then measuring the
=== PAGE 7 ===
7
logical qubit in the same basis as initialization, by direct
measurement of the data qubits. Noise in the simulation
consists of a depolarizing channel after every operation,
with a 1-qubit channel for 1-qubit gates (and reset) or a
2-qubit channel for the 2-qubit gate, which is controlled-
Z (CZ) in our circuits. Measurement error is modeled as
a binary symmetric channel on the classical bit (i.e. flip
the classical bit with some probability). The depolarizing
channels and measurement error have different probabil-
ities according to the SI-1000 model [44], which is repre-
sentative of error rates in superconducting qubits [23, 45].
The weighting also captures features seen in other qubit
platforms [46, 47], such as 1-qubit gates being more reli-
able than 2-qubit gates, and measurement being less reli-
able than coherent operations. In this model, the channel
probabilities are only determined by the operation and
there is not inhomogeneity in space or time; e.g. all CZ
gates have the same depolarizing probability.
The simulations here use a simple ensemble for Li-
bra. As described in Section IV, each ensemble mem-
ber is correlated-MWPM [10–13] configured with the
hypergraph for the circuit (i.e. DEM file [43]), but
with the error probabilities randomly perturbed by ∼
Lognorm(0,σ 2). Half of the members have σ = ln 2 and
the other halfσ = ln 4. In testing, we found such an inho-
mogeneous ensemble to lead to a small improvement over
a homogeneous ensemble, which may be due to different
values ofσ enabling the ensemble to discover a greater va-
riety of cycles. Future work will explore alternative ways
to construct an ensemble. Libra also includes a comple-
mentary matcher (Fig. 3) with unperturbed hypergraph,
as described in Section IV.
The simulations are a surface-code memory experi-
ment, in the logical Z basis, using CZ and Hadamard
gates, with SI-1000 depolarizing model with parameter
p = 2e−3. The parameters swept in the simulations are
code distance ( d), syndrome rounds ( r), and ensemble
size (s):
• d∈{ 3, 5, 7, 9, 11},
• r∈{ 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, 150, 200, 250},
• s∈{ 20, 40, 60, 80, 100}.
For every combination of (d,r,s ) we perform correlated
MWPM as a baseline, and complementary matching to
determine a complementary gap and initialize two equiv-
alence classes in Libra. If the complementary gap is less
than 20 dB (i.e. ratio of probability between the two
matchings is < 100), then we run the ensemble; this
conditional execution [13, 48] significantly reduces com-
putation time since the fraction of problems where the
ensemble is run scales with the logical error rate [39], de-
creasing with distance. With the ensemble, we produce
three decoder predictions:
• “global” ensembling, which is using the minimum-
total-weight error configuration found by an ensem-
ble member [13];
• Libra using matching synthesis to make improved
configurations;
• Libra “degeneracy” using small-positive cycles to
estimate the probability of equivalence classes.
Each of these three ensembled methods use exactly the
same ensemble (described above), so they demonstrate
the effects of matching synthesis and using small-positive
cycles. However, it is important to note that different
ensembles (e.g. distributions of weight perturbations for
matching) may be better suited to each of the ensembling
methods listed above. The size of the heap for smallest-
relative-weight cycles is 30 in all cases. When the ensem-
ble is not run because the complementary gap is large, all
decoders default to the prediction of correlated MWPM.
We use correlated MWPM as the baseline decoder,
which yields error suppression factor [23] Λ ≈ 3.6 for
SI-1000(p = 2e−3). We quantify accuracy as the ratio of
improvement relative to the correlated-MWPM baseline:
improvement ratio(decoder) = ϵMWPM
ϵdecoder
. (12)
We calculate logical error rate for a memory experiment
of r rounds as
ϵ = 1
2

1−

1− 2nf
N
(1/r)
, (13)
whereN is total number of samples and nf is number of
simulated failures. For all values of ( d,r,s ), we simulate
to at least 1000 failures for every decoder. For a fixed
(d,r ) combination, all decoders for all values of s see the
same sampled shots.
We compare performance of the ensembled decoders at
eachd, showing improvement over correlated-MWPM as
a function of r. In Figs. 5–8, we see two effects. First,
Libra maintains performance (or improves slightly) with
number of rounds, while global ensembling decreases;
the onset of the decrease becomes earlier with increas-
ing d, showing that both d and r affect performance
of global ensembling. Second, including degeneracy by
using small-positive cycles to compute probabilities for
equivalence classes shows an additional modest benefit
over using the best single matching.
We can look at the same data organized differently, by
grouping by fixed r value and plotting improvement as a
function of distance. This is plotted for r∈{ 10, 30, 100}
in Figures 10–12. We can see that Libra shows increas-
ing improvement ratio with distance for all cases. For
global ensembling, there is improvement for r = 10 with
d, some slowing of improvement for r = 30, and a de-
crease with distance for r = 100. Section VI proposes an
explanation for this. If we take r = 30 as an example, we
see that both Libra and Libra-degen. appear to saturate
in performance around ensemble size s = 60.
Figures 10–12 show that the improvement ratio is in-
creasing with d in both versions of Libra. The rate of
improvement can be quantified with Λ, and values for the
=== PAGE 8 ===
8
FIG. 5. Relative accuracy of the decoders at d = 3. Improvement ratio is the ratio of the given decoder’s logical error rate
to that of correlated MWPM. For the decoders, global ensembling refers to selecting the single best ensemble member, Libra
refers to using matching synthesis, and “Libra degen” refers to estimating degeneracy with small-positive cycles.
FIG. 6. Relative accuracy of the decoders at d = 5. As before, improvement ratio is the ratio of the given decoder’s logical error
rate to that of correlated MWPM. For the decoders, global ensembling refers to selecting the single best ensemble member,
Libra refers to using matching synthesis, and “Libra degen” refers to estimating degeneracy with small-positive cycles.
=== PAGE 9 ===
9
FIG. 7. Relative accuracy of the decoders at d = 7. As before, improvement ratio is the ratio of the given decoder’s logical error
rate to that of correlated MWPM. For the decoders, global ensembling refers to selecting the single best ensemble member,
Libra refers to using matching synthesis, and “Libra degen” refers to estimating degeneracy with small-positive cycles.
FIG. 8. Relative accuracy of the decoders at d = 9. As before, improvement ratio is the ratio of the given decoder’s logical error
rate to that of correlated MWPM. For the decoders, global ensembling refers to selecting the single best ensemble member,
Libra refers to using matching synthesis, and “Libra degen” refers to estimating degeneracy with small-positive cycles.
=== PAGE 10 ===
10
FIG. 9. Relative accuracy of the decoders at d = 11. As before, improvement ratio is the ratio of the given decoder’s logical
error rate to that of correlated MWPM. For the decoders, global ensembling refers to selecting the single best ensemble member,
Libra refers to using matching synthesis, and “Libra degen” refers to estimating degeneracy with small-positive cycles.
FIG. 10. Relative accuracy of the decoders as a function of distance for r = 10. As before, improvement ratio is the ratio of
the given decoder’s logical error rate to that of correlated MWPM. For the decoders, global ensembling refers to selecting the
single best ensemble member, Libra refers to using matching synthesis, and “Libra degen” refers to estimating degeneracy with
small-positive cycles.
=== PAGE 11 ===
11
FIG. 11. Relative accuracy of the decoders as a function of distance for r = 30. As before, improvement ratio is the ratio of
the given decoder’s logical error rate to that of correlated MWPM. For the decoders, global ensembling refers to selecting the
single best ensemble member, Libra refers to using matching synthesis, and “Libra degen” refers to estimating degeneracy with
small-positive cycles.
different decoders are calculated in Table I for r = 30. If
we take ensemble size s = 100 for example, we find that
Λ7,11 increases from 3.64 to 4.02 (+10%) for Libra or to
4.05 (+11%) when including “degeneracy” from small-
positive cycles.
However, we remark that Λ is not the only figure of
merit – being a ratio of logical error rates, it increases if
the numerator (a smaller code) has higher logical error
rate. For example, in Table I, we see that ats = 80, Libra
has Λ 9,11 = 3.86 and Libra-degen. has Λ 9,11 = 3.84 (as
a reminder, these are decoding exactly the same samples
of a memory experiment). Conversely, from Fig. 11, we
see that Libra-degen. achieves higher improvement ratio
(hence lower logical error rate) for d = 9 and d = 11.
We see overall that Libra is improving by Λ by about
10% for the range of parameters studied here, but gen-
eralizing to higher distance or different error rates is a
matter for future study.
VI. INTERPRETATION OF LIBRA
In this section, we conjecture on the mechanism that
enables Libra to work well for surface-code decoding.
The key concept in Libra is identifying improving cycles.
How well this works will depend on the structure of the
weighted hypergraph and the nature of the ensemble. In
some informal sense, the ensemble needs some “entropy”
(yielding a diversity of solutions) but not too much (for
a local neighborhood of the hypergraph, one of the en-
semble members needs to find a good local solution).
In our simulations with the surface code (Section V),
we found that Libra improved accuracy over correlated
MWPM [10–13]. We attribute this to 3D locality of the
hypergraph and the fact that the decoders in the en-
semble produce a diversity of reasonably good solutions.
The surface code is a topological code [1, 8] and the er-
ror model is local to each operation, so the hypergraph is
local in three dimensions (every hyperedge is contained
within a ball of some finite radius, independent of the
code distance). Moreover, correlated MWPM is a “pretty
good” decoder for the surface code, in the sense that
high-accuracy decoders have demonstrated only mod-
estly better performance [13, 23, 30], meaning Λ in-
creases by about 10%. Hence the members of the en-
semble tend to produce solutions that are good in a local
neighborhood. We speculate that Libra will show benefit
with other topological codes, such as color codes [26, 49],
provided suitably “good” approximate decoders for the
ensemble. Similarly, we expect Libra to generalize nat-
urally to surface-code logical operations [4, 50–52], since
these also have the properties of the error hypergraph
being 3D-local and being amenable to matching.
We give some intuition for how Libra improves accu-
=== PAGE 12 ===
12
FIG. 12. Relative accuracy of the decoders as a function of distance for r = 100. As before, improvement ratio is the ratio
of the given decoder’s logical error rate to that of correlated MWPM. For the decoders, global ensembling refers to selecting
the single best ensemble member, Libra refers to using matching synthesis, and “Libra degen” refers to estimating degeneracy
with small-positive cycles.
Decoder Λ 3,11 Λ7,11 Λ9,11
MWPM-corr 3.68 3.64 3.52
global ens.
ens=20 3.70 3.61 3.45
ens=40 3.75 3.64 3.43
ens=60 3.76 3.62 3.37
ens=80 3.78 3.65 3.41
ens=100 3.80 3.67 3.44
Libra
ens=20 3.95 3.97 3.78
ens=40 4.00 4.03 3.85
ens=60 4.01 4.03 3.84
ens=80 4.02 4.04 3.86
ens=100 4.01 4.02 3.83
Libra degen.
ens=20 3.99 4.01 3.84
ens=40 4.05 4.10 3.96
ens=60 4.03 4.04 3.83
ens=80 4.04 4.06 3.85
ens=100 4.05 4.05 3.85
TABLE I. Values for error-suppression ratio Λ calculated at r = 30 for various decoders. The ensemble size is reported as
“ens=20”, etc. This table computes Λ in three ways, which yield slightly differing results: for logical error rate ϵd at code
distance d, Λ3,11 = (ϵ3/ϵ11)1/4, Λ7,11 = (ϵ7/ϵ11)1/2, and Λ 9,11 = (ϵ9/ϵ11).
racy of decoding, though we preface that this story will
be studied more carefully in future work. When oper-
ating below the threshold for error correction, which is
the domain of interest for decoding, errors tend to be
sparsely distributed [6, 53]. In matching synthesis, this
leads to small, local cycles.
As a frame of reference, let us use the matching result
produced by correlated MWPM as the baseline configu-
ration of errors, and we can represent any other config-
uration as the collection of cycles and logical operators
=== PAGE 13 ===
13
FIG. 13. Matching synthesis, and the Libra decoder, filter
cycles by relative weight. Each gray box is a matching solu-
tion from the ensemble, and the smaller dashed or solid-blue
boxes represent cycles of positive or negative relative weight,
referenced to a baseline solution (in the text, we use corre-
lated MWPM as a baseline). The synthesized matching only
incorporates the improving cycles.
produced by symmetric difference between the two. We
observe that with randomly perturbed error probabili-
ties, the cycles discovered in matching synthesis have an
average weight that is positive. This means that the ma-
jority are not improving cycles. Hence, if we were to
take whole matchings from the ensemble and only con-
sider their total weight [13], then we find a better solu-
tion than the baseline only when an ensemble member
gets lucky enough to sample enough improving cycles to
be in the tail of the distribution. In contrast, Libra is
able to select the improving cycles individually, shown in
Fig. 13.
One might expect that there will be some density dis-
tribution of cycles that is independent of code distance
(i.e. diameter of the hypergraph), owing to the local
structure of the hypergraph described above. We caution
that this is a conjecture, since we have not yet studied
this carefully. This distribution could also be correlated
with other observed values, such as there being more im-
proving cycles when the complementary gap is small.
If the relative weight of each cycle can be modeled as a
real-valued random variable with positive average value,
then the “global” difference in weight between an ensem-
ble member and the correlated-MWPM baseline, which
is the sum over the cycle relative weights, will also have
positive average value. Moreover, by the Central Limit
Theorem, the ratio of the average and standard devia-
tion for this global weight difference will shrink if the
number of cycles increases (i.e. sample mean converges
to distribution mean). We conjecture that the number
of cycles will increase with size of the hypergraph (i.e.
volume of syndrome, which in a memory experiment is
∼d2r for code distanced and number of syndrome cycles
r), as depicted in Fig. 14. In such circumstances, using
FIG. 14. Conceptual explanation for how ensembling with
total weight of an error configuration converges to the aver-
age performance of an ensemble member as size of the error
hypergraph increase from (a) to (b), with a distribution of
cycles that have average positive relative weight. The con-
ceptual representation of positive- or negative-weight cycles
with dashed or solid-blue boxes, respectively, is the same as
Fig. 13. The label “base” refers to a baseline decoder which
is the reference for the relative weight of cycles – for example,
correlated MWPM. The label “min weight” is the optimal
solution, shown here only for illustration along the “weight”
axis.
the global lowest-weight configuration in the ensemble as
the solution [13] will require the size of the ensemble to
increase with the syndrome volume, in order to sample
from the tail of the distribution for global weight. In
contrast, Libra would be insensitive to this globally im-
posed Central Limit Theorem because it can select the
best local cycles individually. The data in Section V sup-
ports this interpretation, where we see that Libra perfor-
mance is insensitive to d and r, whereas global-weight
ensembling is sensitive to both and recovers by increas-
=== PAGE 14 ===
14
ing the size of the ensemble. However, we do not propose
a functional form for this dependence. Techniques like
windowing [54, 55] or graph partitioning [56] are impor-
tant for parallelization of decoding, as well as streaming
for real-time operation. If ensembling is applied to in-
crease accuracy, windowing and/or partitioning the hy-
pergraph would limit the size of the syndrome volume
in the cut-out region, mitigating the volume-dependent
effects described above. However, we expect that the
minimum size of the syndrome volume will scale ∼ d3
for the surface code, since logical operators of length∼d
can be oriented in any of the three cardinal directions
in 3D. Hence, these considerations become important as
quantum error correction scales to large d.
VII. GENERALIZATIONS TO OTHER
PROBLEMS
This work focuses on solving a particular variant of
MWHPM (Section II) that is relevant to decoding quan-
tum codes, but the methods appear to be more general.
If one is performing constrained optimization where so-
lutions can be decomposed into pieces and evaluated in-
dividually, such as Eqn. (3), then it could be possible
to synthesize two distinct solutions and keep the best
pieces. In contrast to local search in stochastic algo-
rithms [9, 31, 32], this could avoid becoming trapped in
local minima [33].
Using small-positive cycles (from Section III) as gener-
ators of multiple “good” solutions could also be of inter-
est in optimization. For example, suppose one is optimiz-
ing routing in a distribution network, and that there is a
formulation of this problem to which matching synthesis
or a generalization thereof can be applied. An optimal
solution that has no small cycles could be interpreted as
“brittle”, because if the real-world circumstances that in-
form the cost function change, the single solution could
become a poor one. In contrast, if there is a solution
with many small-positive cycles, it means there are many
almost-best solutions that could be generated. In the ex-
ample, we might say this is a “robust” solution because
there are many options to make changes to routing, while
still being a pretty good solution. Whether these conjec-
tures can be applied usefully in optimization problems is
left for future work.
VIII. DISCUSSION
We have presented a method for high-accuracy de-
coding of surface codes called matching synthesis, and
demonstrated improvements in accuracy with a decoder
called Libra. We showed that the method makes effi-
cient use of ensembling, reaching saturation around an
ensemble size of 60 when using correlated MWPM. Our
interpretation of the algorithm and these results is that
each matching in the ensemble can be characterized as
differing from the optimal solution by some random dis-
tribution of cycles on the hypergraph. If the hypergraph
has “local structure” whereby these cycles tend to be
confined to local neighborhoods, then matching synthesis
quickly approaches optimality when the ensemble finds a
good solution in each neighborhood with high probabil-
ity, which is more favorable than requiring an ensemble
member to find a good global solution.
A question not answered here is how close Libra comes
to optimal decoding, which we will investigate in future
work. In the case of surface codes, while it is theoreti-
cally interesting to wonder how close one can get to opti-
mal accuracy with a computationally efficient algorithm,
what is the practical benefit? If Libra (or any other de-
coder) increases Λ by 10%, then the practical benefit is
to reduce the code distanced required to achieve a target
logical error rate ϵ according to the approximate formula
ϵ = 0.1Λ−(d+1)/2 [4, 5]. For example, if the target is
ϵ = 1e−12 per syndrome round and the baseline decoder
(e.g. correlated MWPM) achieves Λ = 4, then the ben-
efit of an improved decoder with Λ = 4 .4 is to reduce
required code distance from d = 37 to d = 35, reducing
qubit overhead by about 1− (35/37)2≈ 11%.
Besides chasing diminishing returns in accuracy, an-
other avenue to applying these results is real-time decod-
ing. An advantage inherent in ensembled decoding [13]
is the ability to do most of the decoding in parallel. Fur-
thermore, matching synthesis with a logarithmic-depth
tree lends itself to short-depth computation. Instead of
making an ensemble out of the already-pretty-good corre-
lated MWPM decoder, one could instead use simpler al-
gorithms for the ensemble like uncorrelated matching [6],
Union-Find [57], clustering decoders [58], or renormaliza-
tion group decoders [59, 60]. Being less accurate, these
might require a larger ensemble; however, if they can
run in parallel on massively parallel hardware (e.g. FP-
GAs or GPUs) and be synthesized in a logarithmic-depth
tree, the execution depth might actually be shorter than
MWPM.
Finally, the matching synthesis method is not re-
stricted to surface codes. We expect that the technique
will translate well to other topological codes, such as
color codes [14, 26, 49, 61–64]. Whether it offers a ben-
efit for other families of codes, such as quantum LDPC
codes [65–67], is not clear at this time. We leave these
investigations to future work.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Michael Newman, Dave Bacon, Oscar Hig-
gott, and Noah Shutty for feedback on the matching syn-
thesis procedure.
=== PAGE 15 ===
15
[1] B. M. Terhal, Quantum error correction for quantum
memories, Rev. Mod. Phys. 87, 307 (2015).
[2] A. M. Steane, Overhead and noise threshold of fault-
tolerant quantum error correction, Phys. Rev. A 68,
042322 (2003).
[3] P. Aliferis, D. Gottesman, and J. Preskill, Quantum accu-
racy threshold for concatenated distance-3 codes, Quan-
tum Info. Comput. 6, 97–165 (2006).
[4] A. G. Fowler, M. Mariantoni, J. M. Martinis, and A. N.
Cleland, Surface codes: Towards practical large-scale
quantum computation, Phys. Rev. A 86, 032324 (2012).
[5] N. C. Jones, R. Van Meter, A. G. Fowler, P. L. McMahon,
J. Kim, T. D. Ladd, and Y. Yamamoto, Layered archi-
tecture for quantum computing, Phys. Rev. X 2, 031007
(2012).
[6] E. Dennis, A. Kitaev, A. Landahl, and J. Preskill,
Topological quantum memory, Journal of Mathematical
Physics 43, 4452 (2002).
[7] J. Edmonds, Paths, trees, and flowers, Can. J. Math. 17,
449 (1965).
[8] S. B. Bravyi and A. Y. Kitaev, Quantum codes on a
lattice with boundary, (1998), Preprint arXiv:quant-
ph/9811052.
[9] A. Hutter, J. R. Wootton, and D. Loss, Efficient markov
chain monte carlo algorithm for the surface code, Phys.
Rev. A 89, 022326 (2014), Preprint arXiv:1302.2669.
[10] A. G. Fowler, Optimal complexity correction of corre-
lated errors in the surface code, arXiv:1310.0863 (2013).
[11] A. Paler and A. G. Fowler, Pipelined correlated minimum
weight perfect matching of the surface code, Quantum 7,
1205 (2023).
[12] O. Higgott, T. C. Bohdanowicz, A. Kubica, S. T. Flam-
mia, and E. T. Campbell, Improved decoding of circuit
noise and fragile boundaries of tailored surface codes,
Physical Review X 13, 031007 (2023).
[13] N. Shutty, M. Newman, and B. Villalonga, Efficient near-
optimal decoding of the surface code through ensembling,
arXiv:2401.12434 (2024).
[14] A. Benhemou, K. Sahay, L. Lao, and B. J. Brown, Min-
imising surface-code failures using a color-code decoder,
(2023), Preprint arXiv:2306.16476.
[15] O. Higgott, T. C. Bohdanowicz, A. Kubica, S. T. Flam-
mia, and E. T. Campbell, Improved decoding of circuit
noise and fragile boundaries of tailored surface codes,
Phys. Rev. X 13, 031007 (2023).
[16] B. Criger and I. Ashraf, Multi-path Summation for De-
coding 2D Topological Codes, Quantum 2, 102 (2018).
[17] J. Old and M. Rispler, Generalized Belief Propagation
Algorithms for Decoding of Surface Codes, Quantum 7,
1037 (2023).
[18] J. Chen, Z. Yi, Z. Liang, and X. Wang, Improved be-
lief propagation decoding algorithms for surface codes,
(2024), Preprint arXiv:2407.11523.
[19] S. Bravyi, M. Suchara, and A. Vargo, Efficient algorithms
for maximum likelihood decoding in the surface code,
Physical Review A 90, 032326 (2014).
[20] C. T. Chubb and S. T. Flammia, Statistical mechanical
models for quantum codes with correlated noise, Annales
de l’Institut Henri Poincar´ e D8, 269 (2021).
[21] C. T. Chubb, General tensor network decoding of 2d
pauli codes, arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.04125 (2021).
[22] C. Piveteau, C. T. Chubb, and J. M. Renes, Ten-
sor network decoding beyond 2d, arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.10722 (2023).
[23] G. Q. AI, Suppressing quantum errors by scaling a sur-
face code logical qubit, Nature 614, 676 (2023).
[24] T. C. Bohdanowicz, Quantum Constructions on Hamil-
tonians, Codes, and Circuits , Ph.D. thesis, California In-
stitute of Technology (2022).
[25] J. Feldman, M. J. Wainwright, and D. R. Karger, Using
linear programming to decode binary linear codes, IEEE
Transactions on Information Theory 51, 954 (2005).
[26] A. J. Landahl, J. T. Anderson, and P. R. Rice, Fault-
tolerant quantum computing with color codes, arXiv
preprint arXiv:1108.5738 (2011).
[27] J. X. Li and P. O. Vontobel, LP Decoding of Quantum
Stabilizer Codes, in 2018 IEEE International Symposium
on Information Theory (ISIT) (IEEE Press, 2018) p.
1306–1310.
[28] O. Fawzi, L. Grou` es, and A. Leverrier, Linear program-
ming decoder for hypergraph product quantum codes, in
IEEE ITW 2020 - IEEE Information theory workshop
2020 (Riva del Garda / Virtual, Italy, 2021).
[29] M. Sheth, S. Z. Jafarzadeh, and V. Gheorghiu, Neural en-
semble decoding for topological quantum error-correcting
codes, Physical Review A 101, 032338 (2020).
[30] J. Bausch, A. W. Senior, F. J. Heras, T. Edlich,
A. Davies, M. Newman, C. Jones, K. Satzinger, M. Y.
Niu, S. Blackwell, et al. , Learning to decode the surface
code with a recurrent, transformer-based neural network,
(2023), Preprint arXiv:2310.05900.
[31] S. Lin, Computer solutions of the traveling salesman
problem, The Bell System Technical Journal 44, 2245
(1965).
[32] S. Lin and B. W. Kernighan, An Effective
Heuristic Algorithm for the Traveling-Salesman
Problem, Operations Research 21, 498 (1973),
https://doi.org/10.1287/opre.21.2.498.
[33] O. Martin, S. W. Otto, and E. W. Felten, Large-step
markov chains for the traveling salesman problem, Com-
plex Systems 5, 299 (1991).
[34] S. W. Mahfoud and D. E. Goldberg, Parallel recombina-
tive simulated annealing: A genetic algorithm, Parallel
Computing 21, 1 (1995).
[35] H. M¨ uhlenbein, M. Gorges-Schleuter, and O. Kr¨ amer,
Evolution algorithms in combinatorial optimization, Par-
allel Computing 7, 65 (1988).
[36] L. Manzoni, L. Mariot, and E. Tuba, Balanced crossover
operators in genetic algorithms, Swarm and Evo-
lutionary Computation 54, 100646 (2020), Preprint
arXiv:1904.10494.
[37] J. H˚ astad, Clique is hard to approximate within n1−ε,
Acta Mathematica 182, 105 (1999).
[38] D. Gottesman, The Heisenberg Representation of
Quantum Computers, (1998), Preprint arXiv:quant-
ph/9807006.
[39] C. Gidney, M. Newman, P. Brooks, and C. Jones, Yoked
surface codes, arXiv:2312.04522 (2023).
[40] H. Bomb´ ın, M. Pant, S. Roberts, and K. I. Seetharam,
Fault-tolerant postselection for low-overhead magic state
preparation, PRX Quantum 5, 010302 (2024).
[41] N. Meister, C. A. Pattison, and J. Preskill, Efficient soft-
=== PAGE 16 ===
16
output decoders for the surface code, (2024), Preprint
arXiv:2405.07433.
[42] S. C. Smith, B. J. Brown, and S. D. Bartlett, Mit-
igating errors in logical qubits, (2024), Preprint
arXiv:2405.03766.
[43] C. Gidney, Stim: a fast stabilizer circuit simulator, Quan-
tum 5, 497 (2021).
[44] C. Gidney, M. Newman, A. Fowler, and M. Broughton,
A fault-tolerant honeycomb memory, Quantum 5, 605
(2021).
[45] S. Krinner, N. Lacroix, A. Remm, A. D. Paolo, E. Genois,
C. Leroux, C. Hellings, S. Lazar, F. Swiadek, J. Her-
rmann, G. J. Norris, C. K. Andersen, M. M¨ uller, A. Blais,
C. Eichler, and A. Wallraff, Realizing repeated quantum
error correction in a distance-three surface code, Nature
605, 669 (2022).
[46] D. Bluvstein, S. J. Evered, A. A. Geim, S. H. Li,
H. Zhou, T. Manovitz, S. Ebadi, M. Cain, M. Kalinowski,
D. Hangleiter, J. P. B. Ataides, N. Maskara, I. Cong,
X. Gao, P. S. Rodriguez, T. Karolyshyn, G. Semeghini,
M. J. Gullans, M. Greiner, V. Vuleti´ c, and M. D. Lukin,
Logical quantum processor based on reconfigurable atom
arrays, Nature 626, 58 (2024).
[47] M. P. da Silva, C. Ryan-Anderson, J. M. Bello-Rivas,
A. Chernoguzov, J. M. Dreiling, C. Foltz, F. Frachon,
J. P. Gaebler, T. M. Gatterman, L. Grans-Samuelsson,
D. Hayes, N. Hewitt, J. Johansen, D. Lucchetti, M. Mills,
S. A. Moses, B. Neyenhuis, A. Paz, J. Pino, P. Siegfried,
J. Strabley, A. Sundaram, D. Tom, S. J. Wernli, M. Zan-
ner, R. P. Stutz, and K. M. Svore, Demonstration of logi-
cal qubits and repeated error correction with better-than-
physical error rates, (2024), Preprint arXiv:2404.02280.
[48] N. Delfosse, Hierarchical decoding to reduce hardware
requirements for quantum computing, (2020), Preprint
arXiv:2001.11427.
[49] C. Gidney and C. Jones, New circuits and an open
source decoder for the color code, (2023), Preprint
arXiv:2312.08813.
[50] D. Horsman, A. G. Fowler, S. Devitt, and R. V. Meter,
Surface code quantum computing by lattice surgery, New
Journal of Physics 14, 123011 (2012).
[51] A. G. Fowler and C. Gidney, Low overhead quantum
computation using lattice surgery, (2018), Preprint
arXiv:1808.06709.
[52] C. Gidney, Inplace Access to the Surface Code Y Basis,
Quantum 8, 1310 (2024).
[53] O. Higgott and C. Gidney, Sparse blossom: correcting
a million errors per core second with minimum-weight
matching, arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.15933 (2023).
[54] L. Skoric, D. E. Browne, K. M. Barnes, N. I. Gillespie,
and E. T. Campbell, Parallel window decoding enables
scalable fault tolerant quantum computation, Nat Com-
mun 14, 7040 (2023), Preprint arXiv:2209.08552.
[55] X. Tan, F. Zhang, R. Chao, Y. Shi, and J. Chen, Scalable
surface-code decoders with parallelization in time, PRX
Quantum 4, 040344 (2023).
[56] Y. Wu and L. Zhong, Fusion Blossom: Fast MWPM De-
coders for QEC, in 2023 IEEE International Conference
on Quantum Computing and Engineering (QCE) , Vol. 01
(2023) pp. 928–938, Preprint arXiv:2305.08307.
[57] N. Delfosse and N. H. Nickerson, Almost-linear time de-
coding algorithm for topological codes, Quantum 5, 595
(2021), Preprint arXiv:1709.06218.
[58] S. Bravyi and J. Haah, Quantum self-correction in the 3d
cubic code model, Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 200501 (2013).
[59] G. Duclos-Cianci and D. Poulin, Fast decoders for topo-
logical quantum codes, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 050504
(2010).
[60] G. Duclos-Cianci and D. Poulin, A renormalization group
decoding algorithm for topological quantum codes, in
2010 IEEE Information Theory Workshop (2010) pp. 1–
5.
[61] H. Bombin and M. A. Martin-Delgado, Statistical me-
chanical models and topological color codes, Phys. Rev.
A 77, 042322 (2008).
[62] N. Delfosse, Decoding color codes by projection onto sur-
face codes, Phys. Rev. A 89, 012317 (2014).
[63] K. Sahay and B. J. Brown, Decoder for the triangular
color code by matching on a m¨ obius strip, PRX Quantum
3, 010310 (2022).
[64] A. Kubica and N. Delfosse, Efficient color code decoders
in d ≥ 2 dimensions from toric code decoders, Quantum
7, 929 (2023).
[65] A. A. Kovalev and L. P. Pryadko, Fault tolerance of
quantum low-density parity check codes with sublinear
distance scaling, Phys. Rev. A 87, 020304 (2013).
[66] N. P. Breuckmann and J. N. Eberhardt, Quantum low-
density parity-check codes, PRX Quantum 2, 040101
(2021).
[67] S. Bravyi, A. W. Cross, J. M. Gambetta, D. Maslov,
P. Rall, and T. J. Yoder, High-threshold and low-
overhead fault-tolerant quantum memory, Nature 627,
778 (2024).